Create deploy-worker-udf-binaries.md (#16463)
dotnet/docs: docs/spark/how-to-guides/deploy-worker-udf-binaries.md

---

> title: Deploy Worker and UDF Binaries

Reviewer: Include .NET for Apache Spark in title

> title: Deploy Worker and UDF Binaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Deploy .NET for Apache Spark worker and user-defined function binaries
```

> description: Learn how to deploy Worker and UDF (User-Defined Function) binaries.

Reviewer: include .NET for Apache Spark in description

> ms.date: 12/30/2019

Reviewer: update date

Author: May I know which date I should use? I put 12/30/2019 since that's the date when I created the PR.

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

> # Deploy Worker and UDF Binaries

Reviewer: Remember to update this title when you update metadata title.

> This how-to provides general instructions on how to deploy Worker and UDF (User-Defined Function) binaries, 

Reviewer: Should worker be capitalized? Also, this sentence should only be on one line instead of 3.

```suggestion
This how-to provides general instructions on how to deploy .NET for Apache Spark worker and user-defined function binaries, including which Environment Variables to set up and some commonly used parameters when launching applications with `spark-submit`.
```

including which Environment Variables to set up and some commonly used parameters 
when launching applications with `spark-submit`.

> ## Configurations

Reviewer: Maybe put a quick intro under this header. Configurations for what?

Author: Added!

> ### 1. Environment Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Environment variables
```

    </td>
    <td width="75%">
      <b>Description</b>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>DOTNET_WORKER_DIR</b></td>
    <td>Path where the <code>Microsoft.Spark.Worker</code> binary has been generated.</br>It's used by the Spark driver and will be passed to Spark executors. If this variable is not set up, the Spark executors will search the path specified in the <code>PATH</code> environment variable.</br><i>e.g. "C:\bin\Microsoft.Spark.Worker"</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS</b></td>
    <td>Comma-separated paths where <code>Microsoft.Spark.Worker</code> will load assemblies.</br>Note that if a path starts with ".", the working directory will be prepended. If in <b>yarn mode</b>, "." would represent the container's working directory.</br><i>e.g. "C:\Users\&lt;user name&gt;\&lt;mysparkapp&gt;\bin\Debug\&lt;dotnet version&gt;"</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>DOTNET_WORKER_DEBUG</b></td>
    <td>If you want to <a href="https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/docs/developer-guide.md#debugging-user-defined-function-udf">debug a UDF</a>, then set this environment variable to <code>1</code> before running <code>spark-submit</code>.</td>
  </tr>

> </table>

Reviewer: Change table to markdown.

> ### 2. Parameter Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Parameter options
```

Once the Spark application is [bundled](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html#bundling-your-applications-dependencies), you can launch it using `spark-submit`. The following table shows some of the commonly used options: 

> <table>

Reviewer: Change table to markdown.

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--archives</b></td>
    <td>Comma-separated list of archives to be extracted into the working directory of each executor.</br>
      <ul>
        <li>Please note that this option is only applicable for yarn mode.</li>
        <li>It supports specifying file names with # similar to Hadoop.</br>
      </ul>
      <i>e.g. <code>hdfs://&lt;path to your worker file&gt;/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.zip#worker</code>. This will copy and extract the zip file to <code>worker</code> folder.</i></li></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>application-jar</b></td>
    <td>Path to a bundled jar including your application and all dependencies.</br>
    <i>e.g. hdfs://&lt;path to your jar&gt;/microsoft-spark-&lt;version&gt;.jar</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>application-arguments</b></td>
    <td>Arguments passed to the main method of your main class, if any.</br><i>e.g. hdfs://&lt;path to your app&gt;/&lt;your app&gt;.zip &lt;your app name&gt; &lt;app args&gt;</i></td>
  </tr>
</table>

> > Note: Please specify all the `--options` before `application-jar` when launching applications with `spark-submit`, otherwise they will be ignored. Please see more `spark-submit` options [here](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html) and running spark on YARN details [here](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Specify all the `--options` before `application-jar` when launching applications with `spark-submit`, otherwise they will be ignored. For more information, see [`spark-submit` options](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html) and [running spark on YARN details](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html).
```

> ## FAQ

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Frequently asked questions
```

> #### 1. Question: When I run a spark app with UDFs, I get the following error. What should I do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### When I run a spark app with UDFs, I get a `FileNotFoundException' error. What should I do?
```

> > **Error:** [ ] [ ] [Error] [TaskRunner] [0] ProcessStream() failed with exception: System.IO.FileNotFoundException: Assembly 'mySparkApp, Version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=null' file not found: 'mySparkApp.dll'

Reviewer: Should the first two fields be empty?

Author: Yes, since these two fields are user pc information. That's why I remove the content.

Reviewer: Can you please exclude those for a cleaner look? Or put generic information in them to say what the fields are?

> **Answer:** Please check if the `DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS` environment variable is set correctly. It should be the path that contains your `mySparkApp.dll`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Answer:** Check that the `DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS` environment variable is set correctly. It should be the path that contains your `mySparkApp.dll`.
```

> #### 2. Question: After I upgraded my Spark Dotnet version and reset the `DOTNET_WORKER_DIR` environment variable, why do I still get the following error?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### After I upgraded my .NET for Apache Spark version and reset the `DOTNET_WORKER_DIR` environment variable, why do I still get the following `IOException` error?
```

> **Error:** Lost task 0.0 in stage 11.0 (TID 24, localhost, executor driver): java.io.IOException: Cannot run program "Microsoft.Spark.Worker.exe": CreateProcess error=2, The system cannot find the file specified.

> **Answer:** Please try restarting your PowerShell window (or other command windows) first so that it can take the latest environment variable values. Then start your program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Answer:** Try restarting your PowerShell window (or other command windows) first so that it can take the latest environment variable values. Then start your program.
```

> #### 3. Question: After submitting my Spark application, I get the error `System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### After submitting my Spark application, I get the error `System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context'`.
```

> **Error:** [ ] [ ] [Error] [TaskRunner] [0] ProcessStream() failed with exception: System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context' from assembly 'mscorlib, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=...'.

> **Answer:** Please check the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` version you are using. We currently provide two versions: **.NET Framework 4.6.1** and **.NET Core 2.1.x**. In this case, `Microsoft.Spark.Worker.net461.win-x64-<version>` (which you can download [here](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)) should be used since `System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context` is only for .NET Framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Answer:** Check the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` version you are using. There are two versions: **.NET Framework 4.6.1** and **.NET Core 2.1.x**. In this case, `Microsoft.Spark.Worker.net461.win-x64-<version>` (which you can [download](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)) should be used since `System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context` is only for .NET Framework.
```

> #### 4. Question: How to run my spark application with UDFs on YARN? Which environment variables and parameters should I use?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do I run my spark application with UDFs on YARN? Which environment variables and parameters should I use?
```

**Answer:** To launch the spark application on YARN, the environment variables should be specified as `spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.[EnvironmentVariableName]`. Please see below as an example using `spark-submit`:

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```powershell
```

---
title: Deploy .NET for Apache Spark worker and user-defined function binaries
description: Learn how to deploy .NET for Apache Spark worker and user-defined function binaries.
ms.date: 12/30/2019
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

# Deploy .NET for Apache Spark worker and user-defined function binaries

> This how-to provides general instructions on how to deploy .NET for Apache Spark worker and user-defined function binaries, including which Environment Variables to set up and some commonly used parameters when launching applications with `spark-submit`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This how-to provides general instructions on how to deploy .NET for Apache Spark worker and user-defined function binaries. You learn which Environment Variables to set up, as well as some commonly used parameters for launching applications with `spark-submit`.
```

## Configurations
Configurations show the general environment variables and parameters settings in order to deploy .NET for Apache Spark worker and user-defined function binaries.

### Environment variables
When deploying workers and writing UDFs, there are a few commonly used environment variables that you may need to set: 

| Environment Variable         | Description
| :--------------------------- | :---------- 
| DOTNET_WORKER_DIR            | Path where the <code>Microsoft.Spark.Worker</code> binary has been generated.</br>It's used by the Spark driver and will be passed to Spark executors. If this variable is not set up, the Spark executors will search the path specified in the <code>PATH</code> environment variable.</br>_e.g. "C:\bin\Microsoft.Spark.Worker"_

> | DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS | Comma-separated paths where <code>Microsoft.Spark.Worker</code> will load assemblies.</br>Note that if a path starts with ".", the working directory will be prepended. If in **yarn mode**, "." would represent the container's working directory.</br>_e.g. "C:\Users\&lt;user name&gt;\&lt;mysparkapp&gt;\bin\Debug\&lt;dotnet version&gt;"_

Reviewer: I don't think this renders properly. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38858737/72825924-26328600-3c35-11ea-9600-e15ae054b677.png)

Author: Changed. Thanks!

| DOTNET_WORKER_DEBUG          | If you want to <a href="https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/docs/developer-guide.md#debugging-user-defined-function-udf">debug a UDF</a>, then set this environment variable to <code>1</code> before running <code>spark-submit</code>.

### Parameter options
Once the Spark application is [bundled](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html#bundling-your-applications-dependencies), you can launch it using `spark-submit`. The following table shows some of the commonly used options: 

| Parameter Name        | Description
| :---------------------| :---------- 

> | --class               | The entry point for your application.</br>_>e.g. org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --class               | The entry point for your application.</br>_e.g. org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner_
```

| --master              | The <a href="https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html#master-urls">master URL</a> for the cluster.</br>_e.g. yarn_
| --deploy-mode         | Whether to deploy your driver on the worker nodes (<code>cluster</code>) or locally as an external client (<code>client</code>).</br>Default: <code>client</code>
| --conf                | Arbitrary Spark configuration property in <code>key=value</code> format.</br>_e.g. spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_WORKER_DIR=.\worker\Microsoft.Spark.Worker_
| --files               | Comma-separated list of files to be placed in the working directory of each executor.<br/><ul><li>Please note that this option is only applicable for yarn mode.</li><li>It supports specifying file names with # similar to Hadoop.</br></ul>_e.g. <code>myLocalSparkApp.dll#appSeen.dll</code>. Your application should use the name as <code>appSeen.dll</code> to reference <code>myLocalSparkApp.dll</code> when running on YARN._</li>

> | ----archives          | Comma-separated list of archives to be extracted into the working directory of each executor.</br><ul><li>Please note that this option is only applicable for yarn mode.</li><li>It supports specifying file names with # similar to Hadoop.</br></ul>_e.g. <code>hdfs://&lt;path to your worker file&gt;/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.zip#worker</code>. This will copy and extract the zip file to <code>worker</code> folder._</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --archives          | Comma-separated list of archives to be extracted into the working directory of each executor.</br><ul><li>Please note that this option is only applicable for yarn mode.</li><li>It supports specifying file names with # similar to Hadoop.</br></ul>_e.g. <code>hdfs://&lt;path to your worker file&gt;/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.zip#worker</code>. This will copy and extract the zip file to <code>worker</code> folder._</li>
```

> | application-jar       | Path to a bundled jar including your application and all dependencies.</br>_e.g. hdfs://&lt;path to your jar&gt;/microsoft-spark-&lt;version&gt;.jar_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --application-jar       | Path to a bundled jar including your application and all dependencies.</br>_e.g. hdfs://&lt;path to your jar&gt;/microsoft-spark-&lt;version&gt;.jar_
```

Author: -- is not needed for this parameter.

> | application-arguments | Arguments passed to the main method of your main class, if any.</br>_e.g. hdfs://&lt;path to your app&gt;/&lt;your app&gt;.zip &lt;your app name&gt; &lt;app args&gt;_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --application-arguments | Arguments passed to the main method of your main class, if any.</br>_e.g. hdfs://&lt;path to your app&gt;/&lt;your app&gt;.zip &lt;your app name&gt; &lt;app args&gt;_
```

Author: -- is not needed for this parameter.
